New guide: added guide for honojs based site (#5798)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-honojs-site.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Deploy a Honojs site
---

# Deploy a Honojs site

> [Hono](https://honojs.dev/) - [炎] means flame🔥 in Japanese - is a small, simple, and ultrafast web framework for Cloudflare Workers, Deno, Bun, and others. Fast, but not only fast.  In this guide, you will create a new Honojs application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hono](https://honojs.dev/) - [炎] means flame🔥 in Japanese - is a small, simple, and ultrafast web framework for Cloudflare Pages/Workers, Deno, Bun, and others. Fast, but not only fast.  In this guide, you will create a new Honojs application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.
```

## Creating a new project

Create a new project by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
$ mkdir my-hono-app
$ cd my-hono-app
$ npm init -y

> 
> # Install the required dependencies. 
> # ESBuild is needed to bundle the hono app code
> # npm-run-all enables us to run multiple npm commands at once 
> $ npm i --save-dev wrangler hono esbuild npm-run-all 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# Make sure Hono is installed
$ npm install hono

# Install the required dependencies. 
# ESBuild is needed to bundle the hono app code
# npm-run-all enables us to run multiple npm commands at once 
$ npm install --save-dev wrangler esbuild npm-run-all 
```

```

> Now open the project in your cod editor of choice. For, example, we will use VS Code in this tutorial.
> 
> ```shell
> $ code .
> ```

Reviewer: Don't think we need this part 
```suggestion
```

Author: Have made the change directly to the code. Marking as resolved.

In the project, add a `src/server.js` file.

Add the following content to the file.

```javascript

> import { Hono } from 'hono'

Reviewer: @deadlypants1973 do we have any style guides on code formatting? I feel like it's currently a bit all over

If not, can we work on one?

Author: Anything actionable for me?

const app = new Hono()

> app.get('/', (c) => c.text('Hello world, this is Hono!!'))

Reviewer: Can Hono serve static assets? If so, can we have an example?

I'd also like to add a fallback that falls through to our ASSETS.fetch

Author: Added the lines in the code.

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Deploy a Honojs site
---

# Deploy a Honojs site

[Hono](https://honojs.dev/) - [炎] means flame🔥 in Japanese - is a small, simple, and ultrafast web framework for Cloudflare Pages/Workers, Deno, Bun, and others. Fast, but not only fast.  In this guide, you will create a new Honojs application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

## Creating a new project

Create a new project by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
$ mkdir my-hono-app
$ cd my-hono-app
$ npm init -y

# Make sure Hono is installed
$ npm install hono

> # Install the required dependencies. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Install the required dependencies
```

# ESBuild is needed to bundle the hono app code
# npm-run-all enables us to run multiple npm commands at once 
$ npm install --save-dev wrangler esbuild npm-run-all 
```

> Now open the project in your code editor of choice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the project in your code editor of choice.
```

> In the project, add a `src/server.js` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your project, create a `src/server.js` file.
```

> Now open the project in your code editor of choice.
> 
> In the project, add a `src/server.js` file.
> 
> Add the following content to the file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open your project and create a `src/server.js` file. Add the following content to your file:
```

```javascript
import { Hono } from 'hono'
const app = new Hono()

> app.get('/', (c) => c.text('Hello world, this is Hono!!'))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
app.get('/', (ctx) => ctx.text('Hello world, this is Hono!!'))
```

export default app
```

> If you want to serve any static files like css, image or js files, you will need to add this bit code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to serve static files like CSS, image or JavaScript files, you will need to add the following to your `src/server.js` file:
```

```javascript

> app.get('/pub/*', async (c) => {
>     return await c.env.ASSETS.fetch(c.req)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
app.get('/public/*', async (ctx) => {
    return await ctx.env.ASSETS.fetch(ctx.req)
```

})
```

> This will cause all the files in the `pub` folder within `dist` to be served in your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This will cause all the files in the `pub` folder within `dist` to be served in your application.
```

> This will cause all the files in the `pub` folder within `dist` to be served in your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will cause all the files in the `public` folder within `dist` to be served in your application.
```

> Now, open your `package.json` file and update the `scripts` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open your `package.json` file and update the `scripts` section:
```

```json
    "scripts": {
        "dev": "run-p dev:*",
        "dev:wrangler": "wrangler pages dev dist --live-reload",
        "dev:esbuild": "esbuild --bundle src/server.js --format=esm --watch --outfile=dist/_worker.js",
        "build": "esbuild --bundle src/server.js --format=esm --outfile=dist/_worker.js",
        "deploy": "wrangler pages publish dist"
    },
```

> Here `npm-run-all` enables us to use a single command `npm run dev` to run `npm run dev:wrangler` and `npm run dev:esbuild` together simultaneously in watch mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here `npm-run-all` enables you to use a single command `npm run dev` to run `npm run dev:wrangler` and `npm run dev:esbuild` together simultaneously in watch mode.
```

> ## Running in local

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Run in local dev
```

> Start your dev workflow using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start your dev workflow by running:
```

```shell
$ npm run dev
```

> You should be able to see the generated web app in http://localhost:8788

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You should be able to review your generated web application at `http://localhost:8788`.
```

{{<render file="_tutorials-before-you-start.md">}}

> ## Creating a GitHub repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a GitHub repository
```

Create a new GitHub repository by visiting [repo.new](https://repo.new). After creating a new repository, prepare and push your local application to GitHub by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/<yourgithubusername>/my-hono-app
$ git branch -M main
$ git push -u origin main
```

> ## Deploying with Cloudflare Pages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deploy with Cloudflare Pages
```
